[ADD] Appraisals: Skills Evolution reporting (#10999)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/appraisals/skills_evolution.rst

================
Skills evolution
================

In Odoo's **Appraisals** app, it is possible to view employee's skills as they progress over time in
the :ref:`Skills Evolution <appraisals/identify-skill-evolution>` report, also known as the
*Appraisal Skills Report*.

> Managers can use this to see who is are achieving their various skill goals set on their appraisals,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managers can use this to see who is achieving their various skill goals set on their appraisals,
```

who is meeting their skill deadlines, who has the highest performance in terms of skill development,
and more.

> The *Skills Evolution* report also provides the ability to :ref:`searching employees with specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Skills Evolution* report also provides the ability to :ref:`search for employees with specific
```

skills <appraisals/identify-skills>` at certain levels, which can be helpful for scenarios where
specific skills are required.

.. _appraisals/identify-skill-evolution:

Skills evolution report
=======================

To access this *Skills Evolution* report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals app --> Reporting
--> Skills Evolution`.

Doing so reveals the :guilabel:`Appraisal Skills Report` page, which displays a report of all
skills, grouped by employee, in alphabetical order, by default.

.. note::
   Skill levels are **only** updated after an appraisal is marked as done. Any skill level changes

>    from any ongoing appraisals that have **not** been finalized are **not** included in this report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   from ongoing appraisals that have **not** been finalized are **not** included in this report.
```

> All the :guilabel:`Employee` lines are expanded with all the various skill types nested below. Each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the :guilabel:`Employee` lines are expanded, with all the various skill types nested below. Each
```

================
Skills evolution
================

In Odoo's **Appraisals** app, it is possible to view employee's skills as they progress over time in

> the :ref:`Skills Evolution <appraisals/identify-skill-evolution>` report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the :ref:`Skills Evolution <appraisals/identify-skill-evolution>` report, also known as the *Appraisal Skills Report*.
```
this seems like a necessary addition as the title of the Reporting page differs from the drop-down Reporting option in this case. This should, hopefully, avoid any potential confusion from the reader as the documentation continues.

> This is helpful to managers, so they can see who is are achieving their various skill goals set on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managers can use this to see who is are achieving their various skill goals set on
```

their appraisals, who is meeting their skill deadlines, who has the highest performance in terms of
skill development, and more.

> The *Skills Evolution* report also allows for :ref:`searching employees with specific skills

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Skills Evolution* report also provides the ability to :ref:`search for employees with specific skills
```

<appraisals/identify-skills>` at certain levels, which can be helpful for scenarios where specific
skills are required.

.. _appraisals/identify-skill-evolution:

Skills evolution report
=======================

To access this *Skills Evolution* report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals app --> Reporting
--> Skills Evolution`.

> The :guilabel:`Appraisal Skills Report` page displays a report of all skills, grouped by employee,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing so reveals the :guilabel:`Appraisal Skills Report` page, which displays a report of all skills, grouped by employee,
```

in alphabetical order, by default.

.. note::
   Skill levels are **only** updated after an appraisal is marked as done. Any skill level changes
   from any ongoing appraisals that have **not** been finalized are **not** included in this report.

All the :guilabel:`Employee` lines are expanded with all the various skill types nested below. Each
individual skill type is collapsed, by default. To view the individual skills contained within a
skill type, click anywhere on the skill type line to expand the data.

Each skill has the following information listed:

> - :guilabel:`Employee`: The name of the employee.
> - :guilabel:`Skill Type`: The category the skill falls under.
> - :guilabel:`Skill`: The specific, individual skill.
> - :guilabel:`Previous Skill Level`: The level the employee had previously achieved for the skill.
> - :guilabel:`Previous Skill Progress`: The previous percentage of competency achieved for the skill
>   (based on the :guilabel:`Skill Level`).
> - :guilabel:`Current Skill Level`: The current level the employee has achieved for the skill.
> - :guilabel:`Current Skill Progress`: The current percentage of competency achieved for the skill.
> - :guilabel:`Justification`: Any notes entered on the skill, explaining the progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Employee`: the name of the employee.
- :guilabel:`Skill Type`: the category the skill falls under.
- :guilabel:`Skill`: the specific, individual skill.
- :guilabel:`Previous Skill Level`: the level the employee had previously achieved for the skill.
- :guilabel:`Previous Skill Progress`: the previous percentage of competency achieved for the skill
  (based on the :guilabel:`Skill Level`).
- :guilabel:`Current Skill Level`: the current level the employee has achieved for the skill.
- :guilabel:`Current Skill Progress`: the current percentage of competency achieved for the skill.
- :guilabel:`Justification`: any notes entered on the skill, explaining the progress.
```
opting for lowercase in this instance, since the explanations following the colon aren't complete sentences.

The color of the skill text indicates any changes from the previous appraisal. Skill levels that

> have increased since the last appraisal appear in green as an *Improvement*, skill levels that have
> **not** changed appear in black as *No Change*, and skills that have regressed appear in red as
> *Regression*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have increased since the last appraisal appear in green, as an *Improvement*. Skill levels that have
**not** changed appear in black, as *No Change*. Skills that have regressed appear in red, as
*Regression*.
```

This report can be modified to find specific information by adjusting the :ref:`filters
<search/filters>` and :ref:`groupings <search/group>` set in the search bar at the top.

.. image:: skills_evolution/skills-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A report showing all the skills grouped by employee.

.. _appraisals/identify-skills:

Use case: Identify employees with specific skills
=================================================

Since the :guilabel:`Appraisal Skills Report` organizes all skills by employee, it can be difficult
to find employees with a specific skill at a specific level. To find these employees, a custom
filter must be used.

> In this example, this report is modified to show employees with an expert level of Javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the report is modified to show employees with an expert level of Javascript
```

knowledge. To view only those employees, first remove all active filters in the search bar.

Next, click the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down arrow)` icon in the search bar, then click
:guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` beneath the :icon:`fa-filters` :guilabel:`Filters` column to load an
:guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window.

> Using the drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`Skill` for the first drop-down, then select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the drop-down menu in the first field, select :guilabel:`Skill`. Then, keep the second field as-is, and select
```

> :guilabel:`Javascript` for the third drop-down field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Javascript` from the drop-down menu in the third field.
```

> Next, click the :guilabel:`New Rule` button, and another line appears. In this second line, select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click :guilabel:`New Rule`, and another line appears. In this second line, select
```

> :guilabel:`Current Skill Level` for the first drop-down, then select :guilabel:`Expert` for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Current Skill Level` for the first drop-down field, leave the second field as-is, then select :guilabel:`Expert` for the
```

third drop-down field.

> After the :guilabel:`New Rule` button is clicked, the word :guilabel:`"any"` in the sentence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the :guilabel:`New Rule` button is clicked, the word :guilabel:`"any"` in the sentence,
```

> :guilabel:`Match any of the following rules:` changes from plain text into a drop-down menu. Click

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Match any of the following rules:`, changes from plain text into a drop-down menu. Click
```

the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down arrow)` icon after the word :guilabel:`any`, and select
:guilabel:`all`.

Finally, click the :guilabel:`Add` button.

.. image:: skills_evolution/javascript.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Custom Filter pop-up with the parameters set.

Now, only employees that have an :guilabel:`Expert` level for the skill :guilabel:`Javascript`

> appear. In this example, only :guilabel:`Mark Demo` meets these criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
appear. In this example, only :guilabel:`Marc Demo` meets these criteria.
```

> appear. In this example only :guilabel:`Mark Demo` meets these criteria.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
appear. In this example, only :guilabel:`Mark Demo` meets these criteria.
```

.. image:: skills_evolution/results.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The employees with expert Javascript skills.

Use case: Assess highest improvement
====================================

Another way to modify the :guilabel:`Appraisal Skills Report` is to identify the employee who has
the highest amount of improved skills over a specific period of time. In this example, the employee
with the most amount of improved skills for the third quarter is being determined.

To view this information, first remove the default filter in the search bar. Next, click the
:icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down arrow)` icon in the search bar, then click
:guilabel:`Improvement` beneath the :icon:`fa-filter` :guilabel:`Filters` column. Enabling this
filter only presents skills that have improved.

> With the search bar still expanded, click :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` at the bottom of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the search bar drop-down menu still expanded, click :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` at the bottom of the
```

:icon:`fa-filter` :guilabel:`Filters` column, and an :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window
appears.

> Select :guilabel:`Create Date` for the first drop-down field, then select :guilabel:`is between` for

Reviewer: During my run-through, I am unable to locate a 'Create Date' option for the first drop-down field...

![Screenshot 2024-09-18 103043](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1187c815-f06a-481e-ae94-1a5e8be71afe)

the second drop-down field. Once :guilabel:`is between` is selected, a second field appears after

> the last field. Using the calendar selector, set the first date to :guilabel:`07/01/2024` and set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the last field. Using the calendar selector, set the first date to :guilabel:`07/01/2024` and
```

second date to :guilabel:`09/30/2024`. Once all the fields are properly formatted, click

> :guilabel:`Add`.

Reviewer: please double-check this process to ensure its accuracy, and tag me again for another look. thanks!

.. image:: skills_evolution/custom-filter.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Custom Filter pop-up with the parameters set.

These filters present only the skills that have improved during the third quarter (between July 1st

> and September 30th 2024), organized by employee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and September 30th, 2024), organized by employee.
```

The default list view may be difficult to view, depending on the number of employees and skills that
are displayed. Click the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(Pivot)` icon in the top-right corner to
view the data in a pivot table. This presents a pivot table with the employees populating the rows,

> and the only visible column represents the total number of improved skills.

Reviewer: in the two different 17.0 runbots I used to double-check this review, I'm not seeing a Pivot table option on this reporting page. Can you please look into this during your revisions? Thanks! 🙏

> To further organize the data and view which skill types had the most overall improvement, click

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further organize the data, and view which skill types had the most overall improvement, click
```
